[MUSIC]
Previously, we learned how Bellman
equations allow us to express the value
of a state, or state action pair,
in terms of its possible successors.
But you may be wondering,
what is the point of all this?
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to use the Bellman
equations to compute value functions.
To illustrate the power of Bellman
equations, consider this small example,
consisting of just four states,
labeled A, B, C and D on a grid.
The action space consists of moving up,
down, left and right.
Actions which would move off the grid,
instead keep the agent in place.
Say for example we start in state C,
moving up would take us to state A.
If we then try to move left we would
hit a wall and stay in state A.
Moving right next would
take us to state B.
From there,
moving down would land us in state D.
The reward is 0 everywhere except for
any time the agent lands in state B.
If the agent lands in state B,
it gets a reward of +5.
This includes starting in state B and
hitting a wall to remain there.
Let's consider the uniform random policy,
which moves in every
direction 25% of the time.
The discount factor gamma 0.7.
How can we actually work out the value
of each of these states A, B,
C and D under this policy?
Recall that the value function is defined
as the expected return under policy pie.
This is an average over the return
obtained by each sequence of actions
an agent could possibly choose,
infinitely, many possible features.
Luckingly, the Bellman equation for
the state value function
provides an elegant solution.
Using the Bellman equation,
we can write down an expression for
the value of state A in terms of the sum
of the four possible actions and
the resulting possible successor states.
We can simplify the expression
further in this case, because for
each action there's only one possible
associated next state and reward.
That's the sum over s prime and
r reduces to a single value.
Note that here s prime and r do still
depend on the selected action, and
the current state s.
But to keep the notation short,
we haven't this explicitly.
If we go right from state A, we land
in state B, and receive a reward of +5.
This happens one quarter of
the time under the random policy.
If we go down, we land in state C,
and receive no immediate reward.
Again, this occurs
one-quarter of the time.
If you go either up or left,
we will land back in state A again.
Each of the actions, up and left,
again, occur one-quarter of the time.
Since they both land in state A and
received no reward,
we combine them into a single
term with factor of 1 over 2.
Finally, we arrived at the expression
shown here for the value of state A.
We can write down a similar equation for
each of the other states, B, C, and D.
Now we have a system of for
equations for four variables.
You can solve this by hand if you want, or
put it into an automatic equation solver.
The unique solution is shown here.
The important thing to note is that the
Bellman equation reduced an unmanageable
infinite sum over possible futures,
to a simple linear algebra problem.
Perhaps for this small problem,
you can come up with other ways to work
out the values of each of these states.
However the Bellman equation provides
a powerful general relationship for MDPs.
In this case, we used the Bellman equation
to directly write down a system of
equations for the state values, and
then some the system to find the values.
This approach may be possible for
MDPs of moderate size.
However, in more complex problems,
this won't always be practical.
Consider the game of chess for example.
We probably won't be able to even
list all the possible states,
there are around 10 to the 45 of them.
Constructing and
solving the resulting system of Bellman
equations would be a whole other story.
Yeah, humans can learn
to play chess very well.
However, this simple game represents
a tiny fraction of human experience, and
humans can learn to do many things.
Our agents should be able
to learn many things too.
In upcoming lessons we will discuss
algorithms based on Bellman equations,
that scale up to large problems.
Hopefully you see why Bellman
equations are so fundamental for
reinforcement learning.
To sum up, without the Bellman equation,
we might have to consider an infinite
number of possible futures.
The Bellman equations exploit
the structure of the MDP formulation,
to reduce this infinite sum to
a system of linear equations.
We can then potentially solve
the Bellman equation directly to find
the state values.